CEP 30 - Improvements to Cyclus Supply-Demand Framework (#396)
cyclus/cyclus.github.com: source/cep/cep30.rst

CEP 30 - Improvements to Cyclus Supply-Demand Framework
*********************************************************

:CEP: 30

> :Title: Improvements to Cyclus Supply-Demand Framework

Reviewer: This title is vague and all-encompassing.

This CEP should be targeted at sharing financial parameters between the R-I-F hierarchy, and the title should be clear at this more narrow scope.

:Last-Modified: 2024-12-27
:Author: Dean Krueger <dean.krueger@wisc.edu>
:BDFP: Paul Wilson
:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: 2024-11-26
:Cyclus-Version: 1.6.0

Abstract
========

The DRE of the current version of CYCLUS handles the cost of materials being traded in a 
way which was always intended to be expanded upon as discussed in the Supply-Demand 
Framework section of CEP 18. This CEP references moving the Supply-Demand from being 
requester based to being supplier based, with more considerations for economics. As a part 
of moving the DRE in that direction, it is necessary to add economic-based elements to  
the definitions of the Region, Institution, and Facility in such a way as to allow them 
to interact with each other economically. The proposal for doing so is to add sub-classes 
to each which will act as a method of communicating economic information between layers 

> of the simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Framework section of [CEP 18](https://fuelcycle.org/cep/cep18.html). In particular, that CEP 
suggests that the introduction of economic concepts could allow the supplier to have more
influence over the preferences of particular trading paths. As a part 
of moving the DRE in that direction, it is necessary to add economic parameters to  
the definitions of the Region, Institution, and Facility in such a way as to allow them 
to interact with each other to combine these parameters in meaningful ways. The proposal 
for doing so is to add sub-classes 
to each which will act as a method of communicating economic information between layers 
of the simulation.
```

Copyright:
==============================

CEP 30 will be placed in the public domain as required by CEP 1.

Specification:
============================

The new feature being proposed is a subclass for each of the Region, Institution, and 
Facility classes which will allow the communication of economic data between each layer 

> of the CYCLUS simulation. The main feature of the subclass will be a hash table 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Facility classes which will allow the communication of economic/financial data between each layer 
of the CYCLUS Region-Institution-Facility hierarchy. The main feature of the subclass will be a hash table 
```

(enabled by std::unordered_map) which contains pairs of keys (std::string) and values 
(doubles), as well as functions to set and get elements in the table. 

Motivation:
==================

The major motivation for this new feature is that currently when a Facility tries to access 
information about its Institution, it can only reliably use the public API of the Institution 
base class. That is, it is dangerous to try to access something that is only in the public 

> API of a derived Institution archetype because it may not always be there. Because of the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API of a derived Institution archetype because it may not always be there. 
This eliminates the use of the optional Toolkit to introduce economic/financial parameters 
into agents that are required to interact for those parameters since C++ doesn't provide
a way to interrogate the API of an agent.
Because of the 
```

> interdependence of imagined economic functionality on the Facility-Institution-Region 

Reviewer: by convention, I think (?) we prefer the R-I-F order for describing this
```suggestion
interdependence of imagined economic functionality on the Region-Institution-Facility
```

relationship (a facility’s cost may be impacted by its own capital cost, as well as its 
parent institution’s minimum acceptable rate of return and the regional tax rate, for 
instance), the ability of a facility to access information about its parent Agents is 
crucial.

Rationale:
===========================

> It was decided to make the overall feature a subclass is to keep it in line with the class-subclass 

Reviewer: (Remove unnecessary passive voice)
```suggestion
Implementing the overall feature as a subclass keeps it in line with the class-subclass 
```

> structure of other CYCLUS functionality, such as the Facility Institution Region - Agent structure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structure of other CYCLUS functionality, such as the `TimeAgent` or `Trader` features that are inherited this way.
```

The reasons for choosing a hash table over another data structure are that they allow quick and 
easy expansion both by developers and within the simulation itself, as well as search, insert, and 
delete operations being ostensibly O(1). 

During the public vetting stage of CEP 30’s lifecycle two alternative ideas for implementing this 
behavior were proposed. The first was to use the code injection functionality of cycpp files to 

> add economic information to archetypes themselves at the beginning of simulations. This was tested, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add economic information as an optional Toolkit feature to archetypes themselves at the beginning of simulations. This was tested, 
```

but it was discovered that there were problems accessing the information of parent agents, and it 
was determined that this approach would be some combination of too cumbersome and less certain to 

> work. The second idea was to implement some sort of registry, similar to how Microsoft Windows 

Reviewer: Not sure we need to focus on MS Windows as the model here. 

This is also probably in addition to the Toolkit/code injection, but the code injection would include a facility for archetypes to register their ability to respond to financial requests in some globally accessible place.

CEP 30 - Framework for Parameter Exchange in the CYCLUS R-I-F Hierarchy
*********************************************************

:CEP: 30
:Title: Framework for Parameter Exchange in the CYCLUS R-I-F Hierarchy

> :Last-Modified: 2024-12-27

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Last-Modified: 2025-07-08
```
